what how are you employed I was employed
at the White House in the president's
staff and what position that you hold
there I was a staff assistant to the
president and the schedule and
appointments area now how did it come
about that you joined the campaign which
as I understand that that means the
committee for the re-election of the
President
at that point in time it was the
Citizens Committee for the re-election
of the President how did it go about
that well took that decision mr. Herbert
come back President Nixon's personal
lawyer at that point in time called me
at the White House one day indicated to
me that he wished to talk to me would I
come to California which I did I spent
an evening with he and his wife when we
discussed the proposition of the
organization of the re-election effort
for President Nixon his specific concern
was in the finance area he was looking
for someone who had experienced from the
1968 campaign to be the first one in
essentially to set in motion the
personnel organization and so forth the
the early stages of planning stages of a
full-fledged presidential campaign was
any other person at the White House
involved in your selection or
going over yes sir that's correct in my
conversations with mr. Khan back he
indicated to me that before I made a
final decision since I was working at
the White House
that he wished me to discuss this matter
with Bob Haldeman which I did upon my
return from California and you had that
discussion that he approved you're going
over to work in the campaign
yes sir heed now you said you you had a
number of position it's just very
briefly outlined the positions you had
in the campaign to serve these citizens
for the re-election of the president was
really formed after I went across the
street to the what has become our
headquarters and remained a headquarters
building throughout the campaign you
have all your testimony and yo both
rightness have renewed my faith and the
old adage that an honest man is the
noblest work of God and I'm not a lot of
these questions reflect on you and then
respect thank you know
now there was a good deal of
consternation in the among the employers
and employees of the committee to
re-elect the president when no it was
reported on the morning of June 17th
1972 that one of the employees of the
committee mr. McCord and for the people
have been arrested in an act of burglary
during the early morning hours that day
wasn't it yes sir and that was the time
that mr. Liddy made the statement to you
to the effect that some of his boys had
been caught in the Watergate and he'd
made a mistake in those legends one of
the people of one of our people
participate in the mountain yes sir
that's correct
[Music]
excuse me senator he did not say my boys
were caught last night in the Watergate
he just said my boys were caught there
was no direct connection we awarded well
you handle did you import what he was
talking about not until after I read the
newspaper Saturday he made that comment
to me before I knew of the break-in now
the first was the first person you had
any conversation with about this mr.
LaRue I'm not sure precisely the
sequence whether it was a McGruder
conversation of the LaRue conversation
in that week it could be either one yes
well mr. LaRue came and talked to you
that's mr. Fredrick Arul Arul isn't it
yes sir and he was related to our John
Mitchell yes sir
and had served the John Mitchell in the
part of the Justice said I believe I'm
not sure I'm not sure my own knowledge
that last I knew mr. LaRue he'd been at
the White House well in a way he came to
you and told you he was investigating
this matter at request to mr. Mitchell
yes sir
and at that time you had been notified
that the FBI wanted to see him yes sir
and mr. LaRue told you too that not to
go down and see the FBI until you had
seen mr. Mitchell yes sir that's correct
and so you went to see mr. Mitchell and
you told him you were much concerned
about what had happened I was asking
generally for guidance restricted to
that situation I I guess what I was
hoping for was an explanation that
everything was all right I did did you
have no such guidance and no now advice
you got on the subject to us the
philosophical observation is when the
going gets tough the tough get going
yes sir let us all the ignore Matic
expression is worthy of them there's the
Sphinx I guess I don't quite understand
it all but I didn't really understand
you how long was it after that for mr.
Mitchell left the committee
[Music]
the senator I must admit that when I
received news of mr. Mitchell's
departure when I was in Bermuda that
same thought did cross my mind as well
well you've heard of that when I was in
Bermuda which would be probably I guess
it was July 1 that he resigned well what
the what a time just a conversation mr.
Mitchell curved out window when he said
that when the going gets rough the tough
the tough get the tough sketch the tough
get going
why what day of them what day of June
was that I'm not precisely sure but I
think it was midpoint of that first week
probably the 21st or 22nd of June now
mr. Mitchell left on July the 1st yes
sir then you you were so much concerned
about what what happened that you
requested on and requested an
opportunity to speak to mr. Holland I am
Not sure in all fairness senator that I
may have not specifically asked to see
him I sought people out feeling that he
personally should know certain
information whether it was transmitted
to him or whether they would arrange an
interview directly with him was not
signed till the next day in other words
yo-yo concern was so great that you
wanted an opportunity to communicate
with someone in the White House
Yola miss Givens yes sir this at this
point in time my judgment was that there
was a strong possibility that the entire
essentially high command at the
political side of the campaign was
involved in this fair affair and that
the only way to look at it essentially
an internal standpoint was to get
someone in the White House at that point
to take a look at their own campaign or
to say you did go to the White House yes
sir and that was the 23rd about yes sir
it was the 23rd and you've got to talk
to mr. Dwight Chapin the fastest haunt
the secretary yes sir
and you told him that you were very much
concerned about this what happened yes
sir
and mr. Chaffin suggested you take a
vacation uh yes sir he did
mr. Schaefer didn't suggest that you
talk to mr. Halden
no sir I made the assumption that if he
felt that I was that overwrought and
with the information I'd given him the
presumably he would convey that
information mr. didn't you think it was
time for some honest man to be overall I
was overwrought and mr. Chaffin him
tried to impress upon you the fact that
that there was necessary to protect the
president he made that comment gesture
well after you saw mr. Chaffin then you
talked to mr. Donnell erth erth one
didn't you yes sir and you tried to tell
him about it yes sir
and mr. Ehrlichman said you told mr.
Hartman that it was ever the evident to
you that somebody external that the
campaign should look into this model I'm
not sure whether I precisely said that
certainly my purpose in being there and
which I think I conveyed was that
there's a tremendous problem over here
that somebody needs to take a look at
yes you know the word show the idea you
were trying to impress upon mr.
Ehrlichman was that somebody in the
White House or somebody outside of the
committee to re-elect the president
should make an investigation of this
matter whether I put in quite those
strong terms I was trying to express a
concern that there was a major problem
in my judgment at the campaign yes which
ought to be investigated by somebody all
the members of the committee to re-elect
the president yes sir yes while chairman
senator Sam Ervin is questioning with
the place up on the easel to my left
could you give us a
an accounting of the individuals who
receive cash cash disbursements and as
you do that but to the best of your
knowledge tell the committee
what was the basis of that cash
disbursement why wouldn't we want to
give an if amount yes sir
would you like me to take it in the
order you have it on the charger I think
it'd be an easy way today in the case of
mr. Kahn back
he received caffeine in asthma combat
because the perfect combat yes sir
that's correct in the case of mr. Kahn
back he in a period of March 71 up until
secretary Stan's came into the campaign
was essentially my senior from whom I
took instructions he was the principal
fundraiser for the president it's
reelection campaign during that period
he over this period from March until
April 7th received to the best of my
recollection approximately 250,000
dollars in cash I would qualify that by
saying that in raising the funds there
were occasions and I cannot give you
what proportionate amount where he would
raise the funds not turn them in to me
but give me the name of the donor so in
terms of my own internal bookkeeping I
would report a receipt from that
individual and a disbursement to mr.
combat so the entire 250,000 dollar
figure that amount of money did not
physically go through my hand
now do you know if your knowledge why
mr. Kham bank received either by holding
on to receipt to the zone or
the actual disbursement by you this
morning $50,000 no sir I have no
knowledge did you receive any receipt
was to come back considering any money
that was receded that receipt by him
from you no sir not only in the case of
cash but in this entire pre April 7th
period of receipts just were not used in
the campaign period all right then you
go to the next person listed
mr. Gordon strong who was the political
liaison between mr. Haldeman at the
White House and the Campaign Committee
this $350,000 mr. come back on a day
just prior to April 7th and I'm not sure
of the precise date but my best
recollection would be within 10 days
prior to the effective date of the new
law came to me and indicated that he had
had a request from the White House for
350 thousand dollars in cash would I get
that together for him in the
conversation he indicated that he talked
to Bob Haldeman at some point in the
same day mr. stron was present in the
committee mr. comback indicated to me
that mr. strong would arrange to have
this picked up I had put the money in a
briefcase and I do not believe I was
there when the money was physically
picked up so I cannot confirm that mr.
straw in fact personally picked this up
but I either turned it over to mr.
comback or to my secretary I believe
after lunch and was not there when this
is picked up now with regard to that
$300,000 and any other cash could you
tell us what the nomination generally
the cash was in I would say generally
the de cash was in hundred-dollar bills
although at times there were 50s 20s
tens one point I think we even have some
thousand dollar bills now regards mr.
Porter I might add one further remark
about the three hundred and fifty
thousand dollars to the best of my
recollection after having the authority
for mr. come back to do this there was a
meeting in secretary stances office at
which he was present and I was present I
do not believe this was the subject of
the meeting I think it was a very brief
reference my recollection is that mr.
comback indicated to mr. stands that he
had had this request for 350,000 dollars
that he'd asked me to get it together
my best recollection is mr. Stane said
fine now did you know or do you have
your own knowledge the the purpose or
reason for the three hundred thousand
dollars being sent to the White House no
sir I did not
I would go to the next in-person thing
mr. Herbert Porter who was a member of
the staff of the committee for the
re-election of the President he was in
charge of scheduling surrogates speakers
for the president in place of the
president this hundred thousand dollars
covered a period probably of starting in
either December of 1971 or January of 72
he had a blanket authority to draw cash
funds from mr. Magruder
he would come to me and indicate on
various occasions I need $10,000 would
you have it ready for me this hundred
thousand dollars is not a single
disbursement the increments of
disbursement or distribution with
probably in the range of 10 $15,000 over
a period of time moment running up to
April 7th and Beyond the best of my
recollection I turned over approximately
6000 dollars to mr. Porter following the
April 7th date under the my
understanding that these were committed
funds in that case mr. Porter I
understand from his testimony to the
General Accounting Office puts the
figure hired eleven thousand dollars so
as I say this is from memory I would not
dispute his recollection and I believe
he also recollects the total figure to
be somewhat less I had instructions and
I forget who from possibly mr. Magruder
that mr. Porter would receive no further
funds after April 7th when mr. Porter
came to me with that request I went to
mr. stands I asked him I indicated to
him that my clear understanding was that
mr. Porter would no longer receive any
cash funds he indicated to me at that
time that that was his understanding as
well that he would take the matter up
with mr. Mitchell and let me know on his
return he indicated to me that I should
continue making payments on request from
mr. Porter and out now I think you've
indicated that Porter had had a blanket
Authority
Magruder and then later you check or it
was checked with mr. Mitchell generally
who had the authority to approve your
making cash payments so that anybody in
the earliest period it would have been
mr. come back alone
he did not physically spend much time in
Washington DC he'd be in and out every
week or two he would visit with mr.
Mitchell at some point in time fairly
early he indicated to me that and I
believe it initially it was with regard
to all funds that I was not to disburse
any money without mr. Mitchell's
approval and this was what period here
now talking about this would be prior to
mr. Mitchell leaving the Justice
Department would have been in probably
the summer of 71 and did you then that
you checked with mr. Mitchell to get his
approval and making cash payments what
happened in this regard was essentially
that I don't believe any cash payments
came up before the Authority issue was
resolved what had been done prior to my
assuming the disbursement side of a
campaign going back to the Citizens
Committee when we first moved into the
campaign before there was a division of
the finance and political arms of the
campaign mr. Harry Fleming was handling
the disbursement side and I was handling
the receipt side during that period of
time he had established a procedure with
mr. Mitchell a sending down a monthly
budget in writing I inherited that
procedure from him and with regard to
the operating expenses of the committee
each month I would send down to the
Justice Department a memorandum outline
the projected expenses of the campaign
at that point for the following month
generally his secretary would call back
and say fine so that anything that fell
within that budget would be approved in
that kind of authority and I think any
extraordinary item I would have to call
him or call his secretary and ask him I
call him and you say call him you mean
mr. Mitchell yes sir and his secretary
who would that be
miss Li Jablonski what was happening was
mr. Magruder was meeting with mr.
Mitchell regularly at the Justice
Department with regard to planning for
the political side of the campaign
during those meetings he evidently was
discussing financial matters
expenditures and so forth and getting
clearance from mr. Mitchell to go ahead
and make those expenses following the
strict instructions I had from mr.
compact when mr. Magruder came back to
me and said this has been approved I
would turn around and call back down to
the Justice Department I understand from
Lee Jablonski at that point in time that
mr. Mitchell was getting irritated about
being double-teamed in the same issue
and issued instructions for mr. Magruder
and I to work out the clearance
authority for expenditures this was
resolved in terms of mr. Magruder saying
to me that anytime I ask you for aid for
money you can count on the fact that
this has mr. Mitchell's clearance
conversely he indicated to me that
anything I said with regard to the
Finance Committee he would assume that I
had mr. Staunton's permission although
mr. Stan's has not come into the
campaign at that point it was known that
he would be assuming the Finance
chairmanship I now regard to that
$100,000 approximately that mr. Porter
received do you know
mr. liddy situation is very similar to
the porter situation when we talk about
mr. Liddy who is mr. Liddy excuse me mr.
gordon Liddy it was at that point in
time the period of time he began
receiving cash payments was general
counsel to the political committee the
committee for the re-election of the
president at a subsequent date he became
general counsel for the finance
committee for the re-election of the
President and I think the chart shows a
total amount of one hundred ninety nine
thousand dollars that that correct to
your recollection to the best of my
recollection yes sir would you could you
very briefly indicate how that money was
paid to him and under what circumstances
it was a similar type arrangement as mr.
Porter's he had blanket authority from
mr. Magruder to come come to me and give
me a figure of how much how many much
cash he would need he generally up to
the time he came to the Finance
Committee these would be generally in
the same kind of increments as mr.
Porter received generally $10,000 to
$15,000 at a time there came a time to
the best of my recollection very close
to the April 7th date and I'm not
positive whether this would be before
after my best recollection a
recollection would be that it was before
he came to me with a a budget of
$250,000 he did not release that from
his hand he merely showed me the figure
he said I will be coming to you for a
substantial cash payment the first item
of which will be eighty-three thousand
dollars and I would like to pick that up
in a day or two he said in the case of
these additional expenditures beyond
or just distributions beyond what I had
given him previously indicated that the
procedure had changed that I was to
clear each and every distribution from
that point on with mr. McGruder I called
mr. McGruder with regard to this
$250,000 budget he indicated to me that
what mr. Liddy had told me was correct
that I was to go ahead and pay the
eighty three thousand dollars on request
but the subsequent distributions were to
be personally cleared with him by
telephone prior to their being made and
he wanted at that time to review both
the timing and the amount confronted
with this I at that point in time took
up with secretary stand I went to see
him I indicated to him that it was a
situation where we had a budget running
hinder the post April seventh period out
of pre April 7th cache funds I said in
my judgment because I'd been sitting on
top of the the total figures that it
seemed to me that the the cash
distributions were becoming massive and
that this particular distribution of
eighty three thousand dollars was
totally out of line with anything we've
done before at that point in time I
requested that he reconfirmed to me the
mr. magoo ters authority to make these
kind of decisions and he indicated to me
that he would take the matter up with
mr. Mitchell he returns in that meeting
with mr. Mitchell and he he confirmed
that mr. Magruder continued to have this
authority that I should pay these funds
and with regard to my question and
concern about purpose he said I do not
want to know and you don't want to know
as well at this point but you've been a
well interviewed man of course the last
several months I don't mean to burden
the record with unnecessary repetition
but could you briefly describe to me the
subject-matter of the several inquiries
made of you I'm particularly interested
in the scope of the interrogation begin
if you will with the first investigation
what was the first time you were
interviewed was that by the FBI you're
talking of an external vetting really of
any time subsequent to the early morning
hours of June 17th 1972 I considered
initially this investigation began
essentially as an internal investigation
my understanding was that mr. LaRue had
that function within the campaign
committee how did you receive that
information whether he imparted that to
me I think I'm not sure was a situation
of general knowledge within the
committee that he was looking into this
matter and this was as early as during
the day on June 17th 1972 I don't
believe it quite moved that fast senator
I think was in that early part or mid
week of the week following a break-in
was that the first interview you had
relevant to the Watergate affair I
believe so yes sir
would you tell us the scope of mr.
Lulu's inquiry at this point in time
that was a very general it was a I would
say he was restricted his inquiry
essentially into the deleting matter I
mean within the committee at a very
early period it was quite obvious I
think to everyone that
the focus was on mr. Liddy and as far as
any knowledge I had that pertain to that
it would be in the area the money that I
had turned over to mr. you know whether
miss Laroo had any previous information
of his own about mr. Liddy's
participation in any of these affairs at
the time he made his inquiries of you I
have no such knowledge Center what was
the nature of the inquiry that mr. LaRue
made off the Liddy situation essentially
it was seeking the information from me
of sort of the dollar figures well I
think once they had the dimensions of it
as I believe I mentioned this morning he
came back to me saying this is a very
politically sensitive issue we need to
come in with a lower figure that point
is sort of broke and I understood mr.
Martinez being relatively external in
the sense that he had joined the
committee shortly before my interview
that he had picked up sort of the range
of the investigation following mr. Marti
and then it would be mr. Parkinson and
mr. O'Brien do they inquire of you about
mr. Liddy's functions and
responsibilities in the committee or was
it limited just to the payments to mr.
Letty by you I think there was a you
know a total awareness of mr. Liddy's
function at least as it was supposed to
be there were no enquiries in that
regard it was purely with regard to the
financial payments to him but no
questions were put to you about mr.
Liddy's functions his involvement his
responsibility for the Watergate episode
no sir what was the next interview you
had following the mardian interview
which was the that was on the
24th of June just prior to my departing
for Bermuda and by him this was mr.
Martinez interview Enrique thank you see
he again was asking and concentrating on
the Liddy payments also mr. Porter's
payment I think a far more comprehensive
approach to the general financial
dealings than had been the case with mr.
root what was the next episode when I
sought out mr. Parkinson and mr. O'Brien
on the evening of July 6th and what was
the essence of that conversation that
conversation was approached by me to
advise them of the facts I knew because
they had not sought me out at that point
it was in the face of nine of the
personnel associated in finance area
having already been subpoenaed before
the grand jury as I indicate this
morning I felt it was a very severe
problem that needed to be addressed and
I sought them out to impart that
information to them what was the next
time you were interviewed or had a
conversation about the Watergate affair
I think I've skipped over the FBI and
early so would you go back and identify
that by date and tell us the scope and
extent of the FBI inquiry I believe that
was in mid week probably the 21st or
22nd of June and it was a interview
purely on the question of whether I knew
mr. Alfred Baldwin was he an employee of
the committee they asked to have our
records made available to them to check
out those faxes very brief and purely on
that subject purely on the subject of
mr. Baldwin yes sir for any questions
asked of you of mr. Magruder of mr.
Deane mr. hunt
mr. Liddy mr. McCord mr. Barker must or
anyone else except mr. ball no sir the
sole subject of that interview was
whether we could identify mr. Baldwin as
having been an employee of the committee
could you no sir I'd never heard of do
you have
why the FBI limited its inquiry to mr.
ballin no sir I do not did it seem to be
limited to a particular purpose did they
express the reason for wanting to know
particularly about mr. ball they
indicated the agents who were there at
that time that they had information that
mr. Baldwin had been involved in a
demonstration I'm not sure they did
identify where it was but I forgotten
where that was but no one asked you
about the Watergate break-in in the
course of that FBI interview no sir has
never mentioned nobody asked you about
mr. Liddy no sir mr. hunt no sir mr.
McCord no sir
money no sir accounting money only in
the sense of was mr. Baldwin on a
payroll er had we paid him any money
then no one asked you about the
hundred-dollar bills that were found
with or on the defendants in the
Watergate trial we were involved in the
illegal entry into the Democratic
National Committee headquarters no sir
did any member of the FBI or the Justice
Department ever discuss any of this with
you the the next occasion I had to meet
was the with the FBI was following my
resignation which I believe was on a
Friday July 14th
I think I'm correcting this that they
were present at my home the following
Monday morning and every morning
thereafter well I'm not paying when when
did you resign on a Friday July 14 and
the following Monday which should have
been the 17th of July the FBI was at
your home that morning yes sir and each
morning thereafter did you say the the
problem there senator was that on that
occasion they were very much interested
in the Watergate matter I indicated to
them that I I felt because there was a
possibility on my part of technical
violations that campaign law that I wish
to be represented by an attorney before
I talked in
that I would be happy to cooperate with
him at that point I was in the process
of receiving a refusal from one attorney
and it took me a day or two to get
another and they leaned on me fairly
heavily during that period until I did
have an attorney all right when you had
an attorney when did you then talk to
the FBI about the broader range and
spectrum of Watergate material the only
there was never an independent
discussion with the FBI they were
present the first time I talked to the
US prosecutors mr. Silbert mr. Klein's
our mr. Campbell
when was that it was on July 20th I
believe senator
yes Sibley that's correct I'm sir shall
I 20th July 20th yes sir and tell us
briefly what transpired in that
interview who was present where it was
held and the substance of the interview
it was in mr. Silbert office president
were myself my attorney mr. stoner
mr. Glanzer mr. Campbell and I believe
I'm correct two agents from the Federal
Bureau and what subject matter was
covered the entire Watergate matter what
did you tell what I've told you
gentlemen here this morning all right
and then use me senator I would we we
had really two sessions with him we did
not cover all the material and on one
occasion I believe for instance the
discussions about the Magruder approach
and so forth were were covered in a
session it was a day or two later you're
talking about the indication by mr.
Magruder that you should perjure
yourself yes sir that's correct in the
second interview of the US Attorney's
Office yes sir
does that matter ever brought out in the
trial of the Watergate defendants uh no
sir
does it ever discussed before the grand
jury yes sir it was were you asked both
questions for the US Attorney's Office
yes sir I would say with regard to my
grand jury testimony that I believe I
spent about an hour before the grand
jury and my best recollection is that
approximately half of that time was
devoted to the Magruder question mr.
Sloane how would you characterize if you
can characterize the interviews you had
with the US Attorney's Office and the
FBI were they thorough and searching the
FBI in terms of the interviews I had
with the US Attorney's Office they were
there as observers I really have never
been questioned by the by the FBI except
in the Baldwin matter I would say that
given the time and the information that
was available the time I feel they were
extremely thorough
Slone one of the responsibilities of
this committee is to file a report
ultimately on its findings and to
recommend if it chooses to do so
revisions in the campaign expenditure
Act electoral reform mr. Sloane on how
we could provide for the inability to
look at the new law and its workings in
a dispassionate sense thank you mr.
Sloane I have one other line of
questions that won't take very long
you've covered the material in general
with mr. day's the council committee of
mr. Thompson
I'd like to know a little more about the
extent and scope of the knowledge of mr.
stands and mr. Mitchell the Watergate
operations insofar as you have that
information
a senator aside from what I've read the
newspaper I have no direct knowledge and
he's ever talked to mr. stands or mr.
Mitchell about the Watergate situation
not to mr. Mitchell I met with mr.
Mitchell only in the one occasion that's
been referred to earlier during that
week I traveled with secretary Stan's he
had numerous conversations with as I
understood it from what I could hear his
end of the conversation
presumably with Bob Barney and Fred
LaRue the people who were understood to
be handling the problem from the
political campaign standpoint mr. Stan's
was extremely defensive and all the
conversations I heard he insisted it
from the end a conversation I heard he
said dammit this is not a finance
problem you guys have to handle it and
you've got to keep it away from Sloan
and myself because we have nothing to do
with it
do you know what he was talking about I
am making an assumption senator but I I
think a pretty obvious one that this was
about the only issue being discussed at
this point I thought would you
characterize mr. Stan's attitude or
demeanor at that time I think he was
angry I think he was upset with the
political campaign the political side of
the campaign did you ask him what he
meant yes sir thank you don't you think
this is an area where we need higher
standards of ethics which exceed the
requirements of law excuse me senator
I'm not sure I say don't you think that
then this area we have should have
Staunton that individuals should have
sent a personal ethics who's
requirements exceeded the trick levels
alone yes sir
in other words it's a fundamental
principle of ethics that people who
handle thoughts belong to other people
keep records of them isn't it yes sir
and I judge from your testimony that you
had met many misgivings as an individual
about the way matters were being handled
in the receipt and disbursement of funds
didn't you yes sir in this transition
period now you were not a policymaker
were you in certain areas but not in
this area now you you work primarily all
internal I would say if if I inferred to
correctly although mr. stands yes sir
in other words your duties were confined
entirely to the finance side of the
matter and you had nothing to do with
the political aspects on it mr. I say
the only overlap was that I was a member
of the budget committee and considered
total expenditures for the campaign the
finance committee role in that
essentially would to be to say this is
all the money we can raise you have to
set your priorities within those limits
we were a restraint factor on the
political spending now you are not a
lawyer no sir and you are in the way in
no trying to comply with the the old law
and the new law you acting upon legal
advice given you bothers yes sir
and mr. liddy was he was at yo legal
adviser
yes sir he was the counsel of committee
at that time now at times the head thou
kept they care they had approximately
100 million seven hundred and seventy
seven thousand dollars available to the
committee to relate the president which
were not deposited banks of that figure
senator approximately a million was in
terms of direct payments to individuals
the balance the the seven hundred and
fifty thousand dollars was deposited in
bank accounts well was that the pasta
how much money was kept in the safe in
your office and in the safe in the
office of mr. stands is our secretary
it's a question of timing senator in the
pre April 7th period I kept all the
funds in the safe that we're in my
office some point after April 7th these
these funds we've discussed here were
moved to the safe and ardent chambers
office the reason for this being that in
pulling together all our records for the
pre April 7th period there was need for
access to my safe which held all these
records by a great number of people so
as purely a mechanical transfer to
another safe because there's more secure
and not as many people had access
gavel committee will come to all them
since I'm going to ask the witness
questions about the exhibit testified
about to two of our mr. witness Sloane
entitled transactions as of April the
7th 1972 case deposits and disbursements
including committed items I'll put this
in the record as Exhibit and asset just
copy be handed to mr. stands
this represents as I understand what mr.
Sloane the treasurer of the finance
committee to re-elect the president
testified the Rossi cash receipts of the
Finance Committee down to April of
seventh the 1972 plus so such persons
portions those receipts had been
committed for various purposes now if my
arithmetic is correct seven hundred and
fifty thousand dollars of rather this
shows the total cash proceeds of one
millionth of approximately 1 million
seven hundred and seventy seven thousand
dollars is that approximate correct
that's the figure on the statement yes
sir
well isn't it or isn't it correct of the
figure well approximately so far as I
know from information that I have
acquired during the entire course of my
chairmanship of the committee it is
approximately correct now it shows that
of this sum amount total cost seven
hundred and $50 thousand dollars was
deposited leaving are a thousand a one
million rather and twenty seven thousand
dollars of which mr. Sloan testified
approximately an item of ten thousand
dollars to mop single an item the
$15,000 stole may have been paid the
checks rather than the cash but even
though cash disbursement of one thousand
and I mean 1 million in two thousand
dollars is that approximately correct
and that would be the correct arithmetic
yes
now this committee has authority on the
Senate resolution number 60 to
investigate every and campaign
contribution made in connection with the
presidential campaign of 1972 or any
campaign proceeding in if this committee
would call on you as though chairman of
the finance committee to elect re-elect
the president
for a statement of the persons who
contributed this a 1 million
approximately 1 million seven hundred
and seventy-seven thousand dollars to
the committee could you give us so such
a statement mr. Chairman I would tell
you that two hundred and thirty three
thousand dollars of it came from mr.
calm back from the 1968 money that he
turned over to the committee and
approximately a million five hundred
thousand dollars came from contributors
and given a little time I could I
believe continue the reconstruction I
have under way as to who gave the rest
of the money I believe that I could tell
you where that money came from from
various records from discussions I've
had with people from my own recollection
and others I have been reconstructing
that figure over a period of time well
are the records now in existence without
having to have them reconstructed there
are disclosed though there are names and
amounts of each contributor there are a
considerable amount of records now in
existence that would show that yes well
while they're not complete records in
existence that would show that well at
one time mr. chairman some of the
records were removed from the
committee's files and destroyed why
would the destroy it they were destroyed
because there was no requirement that
they be kept and insofar as contributors
were concerned we wanted to respect the
anonymity that they had sought and that
they were then
under the law we're talking now about
contributions before April 7th 1972
while they destroyed before after the
break-in they were destroyed after the
break-in
I heard insist mr. chairman that there's
no relevance between the two where do
you speak you say this in other words
you had no desire to hide the records no
may I make a point here
disarm - hi mr. chairman mr. Sloan's
accounting for this for these funds was
given to me on June 23rd the only reason
it was on June 23rd was that he was
waiting for mr. Khan back to come back
from Europe to check the figure of
amounts paid to mr. come back this
statement was ready by mr. Sloan several
weeks before the Watergate affair and he
tendered it to me and I said I didn't
want it until he had checked out the
figures with mr. Porter Liddy and
everyone else as to how much they had
received all those figures merrily gave
a summary of the totals didn't yes
that's right they didn't contain any
record all the names and amounts of
cotton the names of contributors and
amounts of contributions and it didn't
no contain any records about what was
how the funds were disbursed music there
are records that show the amounts of the
contributions and I have been able to
verify and reconstruct those the only
thing is anything it's not talking about
reconstruction I'm talking about the
record that mr. Sloan gave you on the
23rd of June 6 days after the break in
that record mr. chairman the best of my
recollection I destroyed it is strong
yes and you swam and you're stating upon
yours that is no connection between the
destruction of these records and the
break-in of the Watergate or any fail
that the press or the public might find
out from these records what the truth
was about this man
well let me speak only with respect to
myself I will say to you that there was
no connection between my destruction of
the summary sheets given to me by mr.
Sloane and the Watergate affair well it
was quite a coincidence wasn't it as if
it was rather it's rather a suspicious
so coincidence that the records which
showed all these matters were destroyed
that six days after the break-in at the
Watergate the chairman the adjectives
are yours so the adjectives that you're
using clear coincidence sentences should
you think is rather suspicious no I
don't senator I you think it's perfectly
normal of the kind of things you would
expect people who had records and
concerning outlays of campaign funds to
destroy those the records after five men
are caught in an act of Barbary with
money that came from the committee in
their pockets
on an April 6th I asked mr. Sloane to
build up the records of all the
contributors and he did so I asked him
on April 10th before I left on my
vacation to balance out his cash account
they did both of those things pursuant
to my and requests now the fact that
they came to me after the Watergate was
pure and innocent coincidence
well long why did you destroy the
records where the reason I've already
said mr. chairman rather you not only
destroyed the prior records but you
destroyed the record he made john xxiii
after the Watergate I don't I don't know
what you mean by destruction of prior
records well don't you know that mr.
Sloane destroyed the record solve all
their estate transfer his records his
treasure
Isis loan only destroyed to the best of
my knowledge one book of account as
treasurer and that he did according to
his own testimony on the instructions of
mr. Kovic yeah and that was all in the
book of accounts he had wasn't it oh no
he had hundreds of books of accounts and
you produced them I have seen some of
them since I never saw the books have
account during the time they were being
created mr. Stan's don't you know that
that records he destroyed with the only
records he had off in respect to these
so the only original records he had in
respect to these so cash accounts the
record that he destroyed was so far as I
know the only original record he had of
these cash transactions that's correct
yes
and but as I've said we have been able
to Mitch Sloane has been able to
reconstruct the expenditures by by this
account that you have before you and I
have been able to reconstruct the
contributions and we can account for the
money I believe quite accurately you
have all reconstructed the totals of
their expenditures you have
reconstructed any records which show
what the items for which these
expenditures were made have you now mr.
chairman mr. Sloane has reconstructed
this list of expenditures and I do not
know the items for which these
expenditures were made I have testified
to that well don't you think it was bear
unwise all mr. Sloane's part to destroy
his record but there is and records are
on their records reasonable records
ahead of cash have cashed amounts
received and expended I didn't get you
questions here don't you think that that
it was very unwise on the part of mr.
Sloane to destroy their only original
records of cash receipts and
expenditures there were reasons at the
time in retrospect we would have saved
an awful lot of questions if we had kept
them but we had reasons which we
believed were valid in which were based
on legal advice where we did not need to
keep these records was how mr. Liddy the
one that gave you the legal advice to
destroy the records
[Music]
mr. liddy was one of those who gave its
legal advice I remind the Chairman in
all fairness and at the time mr. Liddy
gave us the legal advice he was in good
standing as our counsel there was no
reason to suspect him in any way and he
was doing a good job as counsel now but
I did give well I did get opinions from
others including John Dean and including
Roemer McPhee well um why did you
destroy the summary which mr. Taylor
made and gave you on the 23rd of June at
the summary which mr. Sloane gave me yep
I've testified before that I had it on
my desk for a few days but I was
interested in the names of the
contributors because I wanted to be sure
that we had a record of that that I was
interested in the balance he had on hand
that I was not interested it was not my
concern our interest to know who they
disbursements had gone to mr. Sloane
that balanced that all out with the
people who had gotten the money well
what I'm asking why were you interested
in destroying things you interested in
because
order in this hearing I will ask members
of the audience not to demonstrate now
for two reasons mr. chairman which I
will try to explain again number one it
was possible to determine at any time
from remaining records and from the
recollections of people who had given
that money number two under the law as
we understood it based on advice of
counsel there was no requirement that
they keep these records and as I
testified yesterday the opinion of
counsel it was to the effect that we
didn't have to keep any records before
April 7th if we didn't want to now we've
kept 99% of our records except you kept
no records of all the case receipts and
expenditures well that's not quite
correct mr. chairman we have kept some
records and we have been able from those
records to reconstruct what has happened
well why why destroy your previous
records and why destroy your subsequent
records and reduce yourself to the
necess the sets of reconstruction
something that you already had and
destroyed very simply for the reason so
simple for me to understand right now
determine for the reason that we were
seeking to protect the privacy the
confidentiality of the contributions on
behalf of the contributors
but mr. Stan's was its attitude of your
walk committee and your attitude that
the American people are not entitled to
know who was making political
contributions to influence the election
of the president United States mr.
chairman if you'll permit me I'd like to
answer that in some detail drawing
partially on my testimony of yesterday
at which part I believe the Chairman was
absent the laws in effect prior to April
7th relating to candidates for
nomination did not require any reporting
of any kind did not even require any
bookkeeping we kept a lot of books
nevertheless beginning with April 7th
they did require that all contributions
be recorded and we made an honest and
total effort to see that that was done
but with respect to people who
contributed before April 7th there were
two parties in interest there was our
committee and there was the contributor
our committee didn't care whether those
names were disclosed or not but we felt
that we did not have the right to waive
the contributors privacy if he wanted to
tell how much he gave that was his right
but it was not our right to say how much
he had given unless he wanted to now we
were confronted with a political
situation at the time in which some of
the candidates for President had
released the names of their contributors
and we had to consider whether we wanted
to do the same thing we met we
considered it and we decided that we did
not that we were not going to give away
the rights to privacy of the individual
contributors who had helped in the
campaign that was our decision in other
words you decided that deal right of all
the contributors to have them the
contributions concealed
was a while superior to the right of the
American citizens to know who was off
making contributions to influence
election the president United States we
didn't evaluate it in those terms we've
evaluated in the terms that it was the
Congress of the United States in 1925
that gave the option to a contributor to
remain anonymous and that we had no
right to give away his anonymity
well mr. stands do you not think that
men who have been honored by the
American people as you have ought to
help their course of action guided by
ethical principles which are superior to
the minimum requirements of the criminal
laws
I don't have any quarrel with that but
there's an ethical question and whether
or not I can take your money as a
contributor with an understanding on
your part that you're entitled to
privacy in that contribution and then go
around and release the figure to the
public well all the law said as you
construe it as your counsel construed it
was that you didn't have to make a
public reporting of these contributions
the law didn't require you to destroy
the records those contributions did mr.
chairman the law didn't even go that far
the law didn't even require us to keep
any records during that period of time
and the advice of my attorney but the
law didn't require your ticket to
destroy the records you didn't keep no
course not
yeah that would be a silly problem well
do you think that that men who are
exercised great political power as you
work sir size them and as a former
attorney general of the United States
were exercising and these other people
engaged in the committee work that they
ought to merrily content they oughta
district in this regard the ethical
and can say they have fulfilled our
pulled unit to the American people as
long as they kept keep on the windy side
of the law senator I haven't said that
and I wouldn't say it I'm saying that I
think we have to balance one ethical
principle against another the right of
privacy of an individual as against the
right of the public to know the Congress
has recognized that as a problem that's
why it passed a new law and there was no
reason that I know of why we should have
anticipated the date that law was
effective the Congress mr. chairman gave
us 60 days after the law was effective
to operate under the old law and we had
you had an all law which required you to
court contributions didn't only in the
case of a general election well mr.
sands you was solicited and collected
millions of dollars in campaign
contributions is that right
yes I did some of the people you solicit
we've and your friends weren't it yes of
course don't you feel some obligation to
them to take an interest in what was
happening to the money they contributed
well of course they do
in view of your position is finance
chairman don't you didn't you think that
these people were relying on you taking
an interest in what help to their money
at least to the extent that it was used
for legal campaign concerts of purposes
I think they had every right to assume
here I would not do anything in
contravention of the law well now can
you tell us what
you